# Basics of OOP
- Object, has:
    - Fields (state)
    - Methods (behavior)
- Instances of objects are constructed from a blueprint, defined by devs as **classes**.
- Visibility of object's fields and methods is controlled by access modifiers such as `public` and `private`.

## Class hierarchies
- A parent class, like `Animal`, is called a **superclass**.
- Its children are **subclasses**, e.g. `Dog`, `Cat`.
- Subclasses **inherit** state and behavior from their parent, defining only attributes or behaviors that **differ**.
- Subclasses can **override** the behavior of methods that they inherit from parent classes. Usecases for this:
    - Completely replace the default behavior or
    - Enhance it with some extra stuff

# Pillars of OOP

## 1. Abstraction
- A way of simplifying complex systems by focusing only on the essential features.
- For example, an `Airplane` class could probably exist in both a flight simulator and a flight booking application. But in the former case, it would hold details related to the actual flight, whereas in the latter class you would care only about the seat map and which seats are available.

## 2. Encapsulation
- For a car engine to work: you only need to turn a key or press a button to start it, without knowing all the complex details happening under the hood. Similarly, encapsulation in OOP allows objects to hide certain parts of their internal workings, only exposing a limited interface for interaction with other objects.
- To "encapsulate" something means to keep it `private`, so it's only accessible within the methods of its own class. There's also a less restrictive mode called `protected`, which allows a member of a class to be available to its subclasses too.
- `Interfaces` and `abstract` classes/methods in programming languages help implement abstraction and encapsulation.
- Interfaces, often declared with the `interface` keyword, let you define how objects should interact with one another. Interfaces focus on object behaviors and don't allow declaring fields.
- Imagine you're designing an air transportation simulator. You create a `FlyingTransport` interface with a `fly` method. By making the `Airport` class work only with objects implementing the `FlyingTransport` interface, you can ensure compatibility between airport objects and any flying objects like airplanes, helicopters, or even mythical creatures like domesticated gryphons.
- As long as the method signatures in the interface remain the same, you can change the implementation of the `fly` method in different classes without affecting how instances of the `Airport` class work with your flying objects.

## 3. Inheritance
- The ability to build new classes on top of existing ones.
- Provides code reuse.
- The consequence of using inheritance is that subclasses have the same interface as their parent class. You can’t hide a method in a subclass if it was declared in the superclass.
- You must also implement all **abstract methods**, even if they don’t make sense for your subclass.
- In most programming languages a subclass can extend **only one** superclass.
- On the other hand, any class can implement several interfaces at the same time. But if a superclass implements an interface, all of its subclasses must also implement it.

## 4. Polymorphism
